Sarah (Lead): Alright everyone, thanks for joining. Let's kick off. The main agenda item for today is to decide on the core modeling approach for our new demand forecasting system.
Sarah (Lead): We need something that's accurate, obviously, but also interpretable and maintainable as we scale to thousands of SKUs. David, let's start with you. What are your initial thoughts from a statistical perspective?
David (Statistician): Thanks, Sarah. My position is that we should start with a solid, well-understood foundation. I'm advocating for a classical approach, specifically SARIMA.
David (Statistician): It's the gold standard for a reason. It explicitly models trend, seasonality, and autocorrelation in the data. We get confidence intervals, and the model parameters are directly interpretable.
David (Statistician): The process is rigorous: we'd check for stationarity with an ADF test, analyze ACF and PACF plots to determine the order... it's robust.
Ben (Analyst): David, I appreciate the rigor, but how does that scale? We have over 5,000 SKUs.
Ben (Analyst): Running diagnostics and manually tuning p, d, q parameters for each one seems... daunting. We could use auto-ARIMA, but I've found it can be a bit hit-or-miss.
David (Statistician): It's a challenge, I grant you, but it's a known challenge. We can build functions to automate the selection process. The point is we'd be building on decades of statistical theory, not a... black box.
Chloe (ML Engineer): I think we can move past the 'black box' argument, David. But before I get to that, Ben, what were you thinking as an alternative to ARIMA?
Ben (Analyst): I was looking at Prophet. For an analyst like me who knows the business calendar, it's incredibly intuitive. You just feed it a list of holidays and it handles them.
Ben (Analyst): It automatically decomposes the time series into trend, weekly seasonality, and yearly seasonality. Our sales data has very strong weekly patterns, which Prophet is perfect for.
Ben (Analyst): Plus, it's resilient to missing data and shifts in the trend. It would allow us to get a very strong baseline model up and running for all SKUs very quickly.
Sarah (Lead): Speed is definitely a plus. Chloe, you looked skeptical.
Chloe (ML Engineer): I am. Prophet is a great exploratory tool, and a decent baseline. But it's a generalized additive model. It struggles to capture interactions between features.
Chloe (ML Engineer): What happens when a holiday falls on a weekend? Or when a marketing promotion interacts with a seasonal uplift? Prophet can't model that complex behavior as well as other methods.
Chloe (ML Engineer): My proposal is that we treat this as a machine learning problem. We should be using a gradient boosting model, like LightGBM. The performance is state-of-the-art.
David (Statistician): But a gradient boosting model doesn't inherently understand time series. You're just feeding it a bunch of features. You lose the temporal dependency structure.
Chloe (ML Engineer): We build that structure through feature engineering. We create lag features, rolling window statistics like moving averages and standard deviations, date-based features like day-of-week, week-of-year...
Chloe (ML Engineer): We can add as many external regressors as we want—price, promotions, competitor data, even weather—and the model will find the complex, non-linear relationships.
Sarah (Lead): And the interpretability concern, Chloe? How do we explain to stakeholders why the forecast suddenly spiked?
Chloe (ML Engineer): We use SHAP values. We can generate plots that show exactly which features contributed to each individual forecast, and by how much. It's actually more granular than ARIMA's coefficients.
David (Statistician): But that feature engineering is a huge task, and it's brittle. If you decide you need a 90-day rolling average instead of a 60-day one, you have to rebuild your whole dataset.
David (Statistician): And you're much more prone to overfitting. You have hundreds of features, you can easily start modeling noise instead of signal if you're not extremely careful with validation.
Ben (Analyst): From a practical standpoint, Chloe's approach sounds powerful but very engineering-heavy up front. David's approach is statistically pure but seems hard to manage at scale.
Ben (Analyst): Prophet still feels like the best trade-off to get us started. We can get 80% of the way there in 20% of the time, and then iterate.
Sarah (Lead): Okay, this is a good debate. It's clear there's a spectrum here from classical rigor to cutting-edge ML performance. And Ben makes a good point about time-to-value.
Sarah (Lead): I don't think we should commit to just one approach right now. I'm proposing we run a bake-off, a comparative experiment on a representative subset of SKUs.
Sarah (Lead): Ben, can you take the lead on implementing a Prophet model? This will be our fast, scalable baseline. Pick a product category with good data and clear seasonality.
Ben (Analyst): Absolutely. I can have that running by end of week.
Sarah (Lead): Great. Chloe, can you work on a LightGBM model for that same category? Focus on building a robust feature engineering pipeline. Don't worry about getting every possible feature in, just the key ones.
Chloe (ML Engineer): Sounds good. We'll start with lags and calendar features.
Sarah (Lead): And David, can you act as a consultant for both teams, and also run a SARIMA model on one or two of the most important SKUs from that category as a benchmark?
David (Statistician): Yes, that's a good compromise. It will give us a direct comparison on how each model performs on the same data. I'm happy to help with the statistical validation for all models.
Sarah (Lead): Perfect. Let's set a deadline of two weeks to come back with results. We'll compare performance using MAPE and RMSE on a fixed hold-out set. Any questions?
Chloe (ML Engineer): Nope, clear.
Ben (Analyst): I'm good.
Sarah (Lead): Excellent. This is a great path forward. Thanks everyone. I'll send out a summary. Talk in two weeks.